Design-Review.md, before:

# Design Review

## What is this?
A bi-weekly design review for Bitcoin products and services at (time to be confirmed) 

## What is the purpose?
This allows designers and developers to get constructive feedback specifically related to the user interface, user experience and other related design elements. 

## Who can take part?
Anyone who is working on a user-facing application and wants to get some tips on how they can improve the user experience. We also encourage those who want to learn more about design, enjoy design discussion and giving constructive feedback in a casual informal environment. We greatly appreciate the pseudonymous and private nature of Bitcoin and are more than happy to accommodate those who would prefer not to reveal their identity or have a session recorded. 

## Why should you take part in design review?
This provides a space for the open-source design community to get valuable feedback from different perspectives during the design phase. This will help designers to feel confident they are moving in the right direction.

## How to prepare? 
Please come prepared with screenshots, videos, slides, mockups. If possible you should also aim to share work beforehand with the community so we can spend more time on discussion and less on actually presenting work. There is a dedicated [#design-review](https://bitcoindesign.slack.com/archives/C015DQEPCHJ) channel in slack which is a good place to post your work. In addition, it would be helpful if as a presenter you came prepared with biggest areas of concern or a set of questions.

## How to present 
Ideally you have shared links to your work ahead of the session to give people more time to digest your work. During the call, screen sharing is good but since the resolution and motion is not always great for reviewing design work in detail, we recommend also sharing a direct link to the work (a Figma or deck) where people can follow along in high resolution. Make sure to give a brief overview when you start about; what kind of project you are presenting, what stage it is in and what kind of feedback you are looking for. This will help the participants give you more relevant feedback.

## How to give feedback
Design Review should be a positive and supportive environment that encourages people to share their work. Make sure to be respectful of both the presenter and other participants time by keeping feedback focused, constructive and relevant. Make sure you understand what part of the design is under consideration, and what type of feedback the presenter is looking for (UX flow, detailed design etc.). Asking questions can often be more productive than proposing solutions.

## How do I get involved?
Attend a review! We are currently hosting on Jitsi! 

## Upcoming meetings
Here is a [link](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Meta/issues?q=is%3Aissue+in%3Atitle+%22Design+Review+Call+%23%22+) to a filtered view of Github issues that only includes upcoming and past design review calls.

You can also subscribe to our auto-updating calendar, [More info here](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Meta#the-bitcoin-design-calendar).

Meetings may be recorded for posterity!

## Contacts
Design reviews are currently being scheduled and hosted by [ConorOkus](https://github.com/ConorOkus). Future meetings are likely to be hosted by different members of the Bitcoin Design community.

Commit message:

Adds design review recording to information

Design-Review.md, after:

# Design Review

## What is this?
A bi-weekly design review for Bitcoin products and services at (time to be confirmed) 

## What is the purpose?
This allows designers and developers to get constructive feedback specifically related to the user interface, user experience and other related design elements. 

## Who can take part?
Anyone who is working on a user-facing application and wants to get some tips on how they can improve the user experience. We also encourage those who want to learn more about design, enjoy design discussion and giving constructive feedback in a casual informal environment. We greatly appreciate the pseudonymous and private nature of Bitcoin and are more than happy to accommodate those who would prefer not to reveal their identity or have a session recorded. 

## Why should you take part in design review?
This provides a space for the open-source design community to get valuable feedback from different perspectives during the design phase. This will help designers to feel confident they are moving in the right direction.

## How to prepare? 
Please come prepared with screenshots, videos, slides, mockups. If possible you should also aim to share work beforehand with the community so we can spend more time on discussion and less on actually presenting work. There is a dedicated [#design-review](https://bitcoindesign.slack.com/archives/C015DQEPCHJ) channel in slack which is a good place to post your work. In addition, it would be helpful if as a presenter you came prepared with biggest areas of concern or a set of questions.

## How to present 
Ideally you have shared links to your work ahead of the session to give people more time to digest your work. During the call, screen sharing is good but since the resolution and motion is not always great for reviewing design work in detail, we recommend also sharing a direct link to the work (a Figma or deck) where people can follow along in high resolution. Make sure to give a brief overview when you start about; what kind of project you are presenting, what stage it is in and what kind of feedback you are looking for. This will help the participants give you more relevant feedback.

## How to give feedback
Design Review should be a positive and supportive environment that encourages people to share their work. Make sure to be respectful of both the presenter and other participants time by keeping feedback focused, constructive and relevant. Make sure you understand what part of the design is under consideration, and what type of feedback the presenter is looking for (UX flow, detailed design etc.). Asking questions can often be more productive than proposing solutions.

## How do I get involved?
Attend a review! We are currently hosting on Jitsi! 

## Upcoming meetings
Here is a [link](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Meta/issues?q=is%3Aissue+in%3Atitle+%22Design+Review+Call+%23%22+) to a filtered view of Github issues that only includes upcoming and past design review calls.

You can also subscribe to our auto-updating calendar, [More info here](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Meta#the-bitcoin-design-calendar).

Meetings may be recorded for posterity!

You can view a video from a previous design review session [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4JtL7I0ihiw)

## Contacts
Design reviews are currently being scheduled and hosted by [ConorOkus](https://github.com/ConorOkus). Future meetings are likely to be hosted by different members of the Bitcoin Design community.
