Social-Media-Guidelines.md, before:

# Social Media Guidelines

## The [@bitcoin_design](https://twitter.com/bitcoin_design) Twitter account

The twitter account gives more exposure to designers and efforts in the community. It also hosts the community call every 3 weeks via Twitter Spaces.

### Format

Voice, tone & writing style:

- FOR things, promoting solutions, using positive language
- Not AGAINST things, or use negative language
- Informative & educational
- High signal-to-noise ratio
- Friendly & approachable
- Succinct
- Use threads with each Tweet capturing one idea/point

Content ideas:

- Guide highlights: When new content is added to the guide, create a new thread on the additions (or re-tweet the authors threads - probably better). 
- Designer spotlight: highlight a designer in the community and share a short story about them / why they like bitcoin / what they work on etc.
- Announce calls and call recordings (learning bitcoin & design, design review, community call…)
- Quick user research and polls for community projects
- Respond to current design-related conversations (e.g. post a link to the Units & Symbols page if there’s a thread somewhere around unit formatting)
- Add context to Tweets when RT'ing to add value

Do's:

- OK to highlight when products, services, and brands adopt strategies from the Guide, or do things that’s good for open source bitcoin or open design processes

Don'ts:

- Keep direct criticism to personal accounts
- Keep direct promotion to personal accounts

### Editors

The Twitter account is currently managed by Bosch.

---

## The [newsletter](https://bitcoindesign.substack.com)

Many community members or people generally interested in the community don't have time to keep up with all the activity. The newsletter is a way for them to catch up every 3 weeks with a concise summary of what has happened.

### Format

We have a few set categories:

- Community - calls, current events, member activity
- Bitcoin design guide - update on ongoing work on the guide
- Seeking feedback - give visibility to members who are looking for input
- Everything else - external activity that relates to the community

Within each category, we use bullet lists to briefly summarize each item. Each point should be short and to the point. Light editorializing is OK.

The top of each edition starts with an image that serves as a visual summary of the text content. The image is split into a grid of 8 units, each one showing a screenshot or other visual of a bullet item.

### Editors

The newsletter is currently managed by Conor, Johns, and Christoph. Anyone is welcome to join.

Commit message:

Added Stephens good/bad examples

Social-Media-Guidelines.md, after:

# Social Media Guidelines

## The [@bitcoin_design](https://twitter.com/bitcoin_design) Twitter account

The twitter account gives more exposure to designers and efforts in the community. It also hosts the community call every 3 weeks via Twitter Spaces.

### Format

Voice, tone & writing style:

- FOR things, promoting solutions, using positive language
- Not AGAINST things, or use negative language
- Informative & educational
- High signal-to-noise ratio
- Friendly & approachable
- Succinct
- Use threads with each Tweet capturing one idea/point

Content ideas:

- Guide highlights: When new content is added to the guide, create a new thread on the additions (or re-tweet the authors threads - probably better). 
- Designer spotlight: highlight a designer in the community and share a short story about them / why they like bitcoin / what they work on etc.
- Announce calls and call recordings (learning bitcoin & design, design review, community call…)
- Quick user research and polls for community projects
- Respond to current design-related conversations (e.g. post a link to the Units & Symbols page if there’s a thread somewhere around unit formatting)
- Add context to Tweets when RT'ing to add value

Do's:

- OK to highlight when products, services, and brands adopt strategies from the Guide, or do things that’s good for open source bitcoin or open design processes

Don'ts:

- Keep direct criticism to personal accounts
- Keep direct promotion to personal accounts

Good:

- ABC Wallet just launched a new version with an improved UI. It's a perfect example of techniques from the Onboarding section of the Guide!
- Just wrapped up another awesome design sprint with XYZ Wallet. Thanks for being so open to collaboration with the Bitcoin Design Community!
- Several members of the Design Community participated in this podcast about DEF Wallet to talk about this Lightning backups. What do you think about this topic?
- MNO Exchange just launched an initiative to provide grant funding to people working on open source bitcoin projects. Calling all designers!

Bad:

- GHI Wallet has a pretty bad UI. Shame they haven't read the Guide.
- Gee, JKL Wallet, would it kill you to join a Design Review call?
- PQR Wallet is the best. You should all download it now!
- STU Wallet has a promotion going on where you can get free sats for downloading their app.

### Editors

The Twitter account is currently managed by Bosch.

---

## The [newsletter](https://bitcoindesign.substack.com)

Many community members or people generally interested in the community don't have time to keep up with all the activity. The newsletter is a way for them to catch up every 3 weeks with a concise summary of what has happened.

### Format

We have a few set categories:

- Community - calls, current events, member activity
- Bitcoin design guide - update on ongoing work on the guide
- Seeking feedback - give visibility to members who are looking for input
- Everything else - external activity that relates to the community

Within each category, we use bullet lists to briefly summarize each item. Each point should be short and to the point. Light editorializing is OK.

The top of each edition starts with an image that serves as a visual summary of the text content. The image is split into a grid of 8 units, each one showing a screenshot or other visual of a bullet item.

### Editors

The newsletter is currently managed by Conor, Johns, and Christoph. Anyone is welcome to join.
